---
layout: post
title:  "I Am Dev"
date:   2015-07-24
---

I am dev.

I am the one who writes the code. The one who brings your great idea to life. The one who realizes your business plan. The one who will make you rich. The one who can make your dreams come true.

I am dev.

I am the one you give your designs to. The one who turns these designs into an interactive experience. The one who tries to make this experience great on an infinite number of screen sizes. The one who must account for multiple methods of input. The one who tries to make this experience accessible. The one who tries to keep load times low. The one who tries to minimize DOM reflows and repaints. The one who tries to get animations to run smoothly on mobile devices. The one who must deal with the various quirks and bugs of many different browsers. The one who must find a way to bridge all of the inconsistencies in your designs. The one who must accommodate your requests for new features. The one who must make it work. The one who must make it work by the end of this week.

I am dev.

I am the one who creates the bugs. The one who is too slow. The one who causes delays. The one who does not understand your vision. The one who clearly didn’t even look at the comps. The one who does not know what he is doing.

I am dev.

I am the bane of your project timeline. The hinderer of your plans. The bringer of bad news. The one who tells you it can not be done. The incompetent one. The one who is slowing you down. The one who does not understand your great idea. The one who cannot realize your business plan. The one who is wasting your money. The one who is preventing your dreams from coming true. The one who sucks at writing code.

I am dev.

*Note: This is a dramatization of a job I love dearly*
