---
layout: post
title:  "2016"
date:   2016-01-03
---

They say that if you write your goals down and share them with other people, you will be more likely to achieve them. So I've decided to make the goals I have set for 2016 public, with the hopes that the fear of me looking like a weakling by not following through on my affirmations will help keep me in check (fear isn't always a <a href="https://medium.com/@restlessbit/fear-78ec7c4bcc4#.6zf26whr0" target="_blank">bad thing</a>).

## 2015 in review

Looking back at the past year, I'm somewhat surprised at how much I was able to accomplish, especially when it came to leveling up my front end dev game. Over the past year I've taught myself a bunch of new tricks, such as:

- Creating scalable front end architectures with Sass, SmaCSS, and BEM
- Front end build systems with Gulp, Grunt, and npm scripts
- Version control with Git and GitHub
- Continuous delivery
- Unit testing and writing testable code
- JavaScript design patterns

In addition to adding these skills to my toolbelt, I was able to snag my first "real" job at <a href="http://digitalempire.io" target="_blank">Digital Empire</a>, where I get to make cool things with even cooler people. Also, we always have craft beers stocked in the fridge, which is awesome.

Last year was a good year for my non-coding life as well. I was finally able to make exercising a regular habit, I stopped passing judgment on nearly everything that I encountered, learned how to put myself in a more positive state of mind, and I developed a sense of style (kinda). I was also able to reconnect with old acquaintances, and make a few new ones.

## What I want to accomplish in 2016

### Professionally

Last year, I mastered HTML, CSS, and my front end workflow. So this year, I want to focus on JavaScript. Here are some of the things I want to be able to do with JavaScript:

- Get comfortable writing fully featured web apps with JavaScript
- Become intimately familiar with React and Ember
- Learn API design and development, and how to integrate with those APIs from a client side app
- Master functional programming and prototypal inheritance
- Make test driven development a habit

In order to accomplish all of this, I have set a personal goal of **releasing one web app for every month of this year**. For each app I'll teach myself something new, like authenticating users or implementing pagination. Lucky for me, I already have a bunch of ideas for apps rattling inside my cranium that I am itching to make happen, so this goal should be a piece of cake to accomplish 😏.

### Personally

I want to start writing more, about code and other non-coding topics. I've already given myself a head start by creating this blog; now all I have to do is make posting to it a habit.

I also want to spend less time with screens, and more time living life. This means looking at my phone less, playing less video games, spending more time outdoors, and turning up more often.

But the most important thing I need to work on this year is **getting out of my comfort zone** every once in awhile. Too often have I missed opportunities to improve my life because I was scared, nervous, or because I allowed myself to get comfortable with my current situation. 2016 will be the year where I get up off my ass and take action.

## Overview

In short, the goals I want to accomplish for 2016 are:

- Get good at web app development
- Maintain a blog
- Stop looking at my phone
- Go outside more
- Take action

2016 is looking to be a mighty fun and productive year. I can't wait to find out what it has in store. 🎉
